Update developer guide for workflows on github (#35460)
sagemath/sage: src/doc/en/developer/github.rst

.. highlight:: shell-session

.. _chapter-github:

=============================
The Sage Repository on GitHub
=============================

The center of Sage development is `the SageMath organization on GitHub
<https://github.com/sagemath>`_, which consists of many repositories related
with Sage. The most important one among them is of course `the Sage repository
<https://github.com/sagemath/sage>`_, which we call "the Sage repo" for short.

.. _section-github-account:

Obtaining a GitHub account
==========================

To share your work on Sage, you need a GitHub account. If you do not have one
yet, choose a username and `create an account <https://github.com/join>`_. In
the following, we assume your username "alice". So you always read your own
username if you see "alice".

.. _chapter-github-cli:

> Using the GitHub CLI

Reviewer: Move this further down? Right now it reads as this is essential to use, but it's not (and only adds additional steps if you are totally fine contributing via git + github web interface).

Author: You have to authenticate git to GitHub. It is simpler to install `gh` and do `gh auth login` than to set up SSH.

Reviewer: you can also just use https and your access token, see https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/getting-started-with-git/about-remote-repositories#cloning-with-https-urls

So the paragraph could be something like:

When you git clone, git fetch, git pull, or git push to a remote repository using HTTPS URLs on the command line, Git will ask for your GitHub username and password. When Git prompts you for your password, enter your [personal access token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token). Alternatively, you can use a credential helper like [Git Credential Manager](https://github.com/GitCredentialManager/git-credential-manager/blob/main/README.md) or the Github CLI (see section xyz).

Reviewer 2: +1 on using the gh cli as the primary method.

====================

GitHub provides a command-line interface, the GitHub CLI, that can be used
instead of the web interface.  The central component of the GitHub CLI is the
``gh`` command that you can use in your terminal.

Installation
------------

> This :ref:`spkg_github_cli` documents how to install the ``gh`` command for

Reviewer 2: "This" -> "The section" or "The page"

Author: I chose "The page"

> The page :ref:`spkg_github_cli` documents how to install the ``gh`` command for

Reviewer: Something went wrong with the reference here: 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5037600/237015815-c77efe54-5685-40ef-8403-fe6bf2e1b06e.png)

Author: What went wrong?

Reviewer 2: Looks fine to me

Reviewer: the `github_cli` prefix, or is this desired?

Reviewer 2: This is the title format of all of our spkg pages in the documentation

interact with GitHub. Typically the authorization proceeds as follows::

    [alice@localhost sage]$ gh auth login
    ? What is your preferred protocol for Git operations? HTTPS
    ? Authenticate Git with your GitHub credentials? Yes
    ? How would you like to authenticate GitHub CLI? Login with a web browser

    ! First copy your one-time code: 3DA8-5ADA
    Press Enter to open github.com in your browser...
    ✓ Authentication complete.
    - gh config set -h github.com git_protocol https
    ✓ Configured git protocol
    ✓ Logged in as sage

where a web browser is used to enter credentials. You can also use an
authentication token instead, in which case you must first generate `a Personal
Access Token here <https://github.com/settings/tokens>`_.

Next set the default repo for the ``gh`` command::

    [alice@localhost sage]$ gh repo set-default sagemath/sage

and check::

    [alice@localhost sage]$ gh repo view
    sagemath/sage
    ...

which will show the default repo along with its readme, which is quite long.

Linking Git to your GitHub account
==================================

In order for your Git to work with GitHub, your GitHub account needs to be

> linked with your Git.  No action is needed if you have already contributed to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When working with Github over HTTPS, we recommend you use Git Credential Manager or GitHub CLI to remember your credentials.  No action is needed if you have already contributed to
```

any other project on GitHub and set up Git credentials or SSH keys for this.

The above dialogue from ``gh auth login`` already linked your Git to GitHub by
HTTPS protocol using your GitHub credentials. We assume this in the rest of

> this guide. For more details, see `Caching your GitHub credentials in Git

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this guide. For more details on how to setup the [Git Credential Manager](https://github.com/GitCredentialManager/git-credential-manager), see `Caching your GitHub credentials in Git
```

Author: I have no experience with GCM. It seems an advanced tool to manage user authentication information to remote repositories. Do we have to promote GCM to beginning Sage developers? For this guide, using "gh auth login" seems simplest and sufficient.

Reviewer: GCM seems to be the most popular way to login in remote repos using git (besides for github it also works for say gitlab). It has also a bit more security features than gh auth, and comes with better WSL integration. But yeah, both are developed and supported by github.

Reviewer 2: As another data point, on macOS I'm just using the builtin credential manager.

The "gh auth" method covers all platforms uniformly, which is why I would prefer it as the first thing to explain in our documentation.

Could you elaborate on what's missing on WSL?

Reviewer: For WSL, GCM integrates with the credentials in the main windows system - this is not supported by gh.

What about moving this part into the "setup git" section, or just direct people to the github docs "Caching your GitHub credentials in Git...", then they can choose their own most convenient solution, and we don't have to maintain it.

Author: "setup git" section is part of the "walkthrough", which is before "git interaction with github".

The guide already directs people to "Caching your GitHub credentials in Git..." for more information. They can choose.

But I think the guide should set forth an easy default way to authenticate git to github. "gh auth" is the easy default way.

As you say "GCM seems to be the most popular way", I will add a bit more about GCM instead of "for more details ...".

    ``t: tests``

  - **Component** labels with prefix ``c:`` such as ``c: basic arithmetic``,
    ``c: linear algebra``, ``c: geometry``, etc.

  - **Priority** labels with prefix ``p:`` such as ``p: trivial / 5``,
    ``p: minor / 4``, ``p: major / 3``, ``p: critical / 2``, and ``p: blocker / 1``

  If the issue is not expected to be solved in the near future, you may add
  ``wishlist item`` label.

.. _section-github-create-pr:

Creating a Pull Request
=======================

If you worked on an issue, and prepared a fix for a bug or wrote code for
enhancing Sage, then you create a PR on the Sage repo `sagemath/sage
<https://github.com/sagemath/sage/issues>`_.

In addition to what were said about opening an issue, the following applies:

- The title should concisely describe what the PR does. If the PR solves an
  issue, describe briefly what the PR solves (do not simply put the issue
  number in the title).

- Explain what the PR solves in detail in the body. If the PR solves an issue,
  you may mention the issue here.

- Add type, component, and priority labels. If this PR solves an existing
  issue, please duplicate the labels of the issue to this PR.

> - **Dependencies**: Use the phrase ``Depends on``, followed by the issue or PR

Reviewer 2: ``- Depends on`` is better because in a list the issue title is displayed

Author: OK. Thanks.
